Reporting Tips and Tricks

Reporting is an essential part of the penetration testing process but, if poorly managed, can become very tedious and prone to mistakes. One key aspect of reporting is that we should be working on building our report from the onset. This starts with our organizational structure/notetaking setup, but there are times when we may be running a long discovery scan where we could fill out templated parts of the report such as contact information, client name, scope, etc. While testing, we can be writing up our Attack Chain and each finding with all of the required evidence so we don't have to scramble to recapture evidence after the assessment is over. Working as we go will ensure that our report isn't rushed and comes back from QA with loads of changes in red.
Templates

This should go without saying, but we shouldn't be recreating the wheel with every report we write. It's best to have a blank report template for every assessment type we perform (even the more obscure ones!). If we are not using a reporting tool and just working in old-fashioned MS Word, we can always build a report template with macros and placeholders to fill in some of the data points we fill out for every assessment. We should work with blank templates every time and not just modify a report from a previous client, as we could risk leaving another client's name in the report or other data that does not match our current environment. This type of error makes us look amateur and is easily avoidable.
MS Word Tips & Tricks

Microsoft Word can be a pain to work with, but there are several ways we can make it work for us to make our lives easier, and in our experience, it's easily the least of the available evils. Here are a few tips & tricks that we've gathered over the years on the road to becoming an MS Word guru. First, a few comments:

    The tips and tricks here are described for Microsoft Word. Some of the same functionality may also exist in LibreOffice, but you'll have to [preferred search engine] your way around to figure out if it's possible.
    Do yourself a favor, use Word for Windows, and explicitly avoid using Word for Mac. If you want to use a Mac as your testing platform, get a Windows VM in which you can do your reporting. Mac Word lacks some basic features that Windows Word has, there is no VB Editor (in case you need to use macros), and it cannot natively generate PDFs that look and work correctly (it trims the margins and breaks all of the hyperlinks in the table of contents), to name a few.
    There are many more advanced features like font-kerning that you can use to crank your fancy to 11 if you'd like, but we're going to try to stay focused on the things that improve efficiency and will leave it to the reader (or their marketing department) to determine specific cosmetic preferences.

Let's cover the basics:

    Font styles
        You should be getting as close as you possibly can to a document without any "direct formatting" in it. What I mean by direct formatting is highlighting text and clicking the button to make it bold, italics, underlined, colored, highlighted, etc. "But I thought you "just" said we're only going to focus on stuff that improves efficiency." We are. If you use font styles and you find that you've overlooked a setting in one of your headings that messes up the placement or how it looks, if you update the style itself, it updates "all" instances of that style used in the entire document instead of you having to go manually update all 45 times you used your random heading (and even then, you might miss some).
    Table styles
        Take everything I just said about font styles and apply it to tables. Same concept here. It makes global changes much easier and promotes consistency throughout the report. It also generally makes everyone using the document less miserable, both as an author and as QA.
    Captions
        Use the built-in caption capability (right-click an image or highlighted table and select "Insert Caption...") if you're putting captions on things. Using this functionality will cause the captions to renumber themselves if you have to add or remove something from the report, which is a GIGANTIC headache. This typically has a built-in font style that allows you to control how the captions look.
    Page numbers
        Page numbers make it much easier to refer to specific areas of the document when collaborating with the client to answer questions or clarify the report's content (e.g., "What does the second paragraph on page 12 mean?"). It's the same for clients working internally with their teams to address the findings.
    Table of Contents
        A Table of Contents is a standard component of a professional report. The default ToC is probably fine, but if you want something custom, like hiding page numbers or changing the tab leader, you can select a custom ToC and tinker with the settings.
    List of Figures/Tables
        It's debatable whether a List of Figures or Tables should be in the report. This is the same concept as a Table of Contents, but it only lists the figures or tables in the report. These trigger off the captions, so if you're not using captions on one or the other, or both, this won't work.
    Bookmarks
        Bookmarks are most commonly used to designate places in the document that you can create hyperlinks to (like an appendix with a custom heading). If you plan on using macros to combine templates, you can also use bookmarks to designate entire sections that can be automatically removed from the report.
    Custom Dictionary
        You can think of a custom dictionary as an extension of Word's built-in AutoCorrect feature. If you find yourself misspelling the same words every time you write a report or want to prevent embarrassing typos like writing "pubic" instead of "public," you can add these words to a custom dictionary, and Word will automatically replace them for you. Unfortunately, this feature does not follow the template around, so people will have to configure their own.
    Language Settings
        The primary thing you want to use custom language settings for is most likely to apply it to the font style you created for your code/terminal/text-based evidence (you did create one, right?). You can select the option to ignore spelling and grammar checking within the language settings for this (or any) font style. This is helpful because after you build a report with a bunch of figures in it and you want to run the spell checker tool, you don't have to click ignore a billion times to skip all the stuff in your figures.
    Custom Bullet/Numbering
        You can set up custom numbering to automatically number things like your findings, appendices, and anything else that might benefit from automatic numbering.
    Quick Access Toolbar Setup
        There are many options and functions you can add to your Quick Access Toolbar that you should peruse at your leisure to determine how useful they will be for your workflow, but we'll list a few handy ones here. Select File > Options > Quick Access Toolbar to get to the config.
        Back - It's always good to click on hyperlinks you create to ensure they send you to the right place in the document. The annoying part is getting back to where you were when you clicked so you can keep working. This button takes care of that.
        Undo/Redo - This is only useful if you don't use the keyboard shortcuts instead.
        Save - Again, useful if you don't use the keyboard shortcut instead.
        Beyond this, you can set the "Choose commands from:" dropdown to "Commands Not in the Ribbon" to browse the functions that are more difficult to perform.
    Useful Hotkeys
        F4 will apply the last action you took again. For example, if you highlight some text and apply a font style to it, you can highlight something else to which you want to apply the same font style and just hit F4, which will do the same thing.
        If you're using a ToC and lists of figures and tables, you can hit Ctrl+A to select all and F9 to update all of them simultaneously. This will also update any other "fields" in the document and sometimes does not work as planned, so use it at your own risk.
        A more commonly known one is Ctrl+S to save. I just mention it here because you should be doing it often in case Word crashes, so you don't lose data.
        If you need to look at two different areas of the report simultaneously and don't want to scroll back and forth, you can use Ctrl+Alt+S to split the window into two panes.
        This may seem like a silly one, but if you accidentally hit your keyboard and you have no idea where your cursor is (or where you just inserted some rogue character or accidentally typed something unprofessional into your report instead of Discord), you can hit Shift+F5 to move the cursor to where the last revision was made.
        There are many more listed here, but these are the ones that I've found have been the most useful that aren't also obvious.

Automation

When developing report templates, you may get to a point where you have a reasonably mature document but not enough time or budget to acquire an automated reporting platform. A lot of automation can be gained through macros in MS Word documents. You will need to save your templates as .dotm files, and you will need to be in a Windows environment to get the most out of this (Mac Word's VB Editor may as well not exist). Some of the most common things you can do with macros are:

    Create a macro that will throw a pop-up for you to enter key pieces of information that will then get automatically inserted into the report template where designated placeholder variables are:
        Client name
        Dates
        Scope details
        Type of testing
        Environment or application names
    You can combine different report templates into a single document and have a macro go through and remove entire sections (that you designate via bookmarks) that don't belong in a particular assessment type.
        This eases the task of maintaining your templates since you only have to maintain one instead of many
    You may also be able to automate quality assurance tasks by correcting errors made often. Given that writing Word macros is basically a programming language on its own (and could be a course all by itself), we leave it to the reader to use online resources to learn how to accomplish these tasks.

Reporting Tools/Findings Database

Once you do several assessments, you'll start to notice that many of the environments you target are afflicted by the same problems. If you do not have a database of findings, you'll waste a tremendous amount of time rewriting the same content repeatedly, and you risk introducing inconsistencies in your recommendations and how thoroughly or clearly you describe the finding itself. If you multiply these issues by an entire team, the quality of your reports will vary wildly from one consultant to the next. At a minimum, you should maintain a dedicated document with sanitized versions of your findings that you can copy/paste into your reports. As discussed previously, we should constantly strive to customize findings to a client environment whenever it makes sense but having templated findings saves a ton of time.

However, it is time well spent to investigate and configure one of the available platforms designed for this purpose. Some are free, and some must be paid for, but they will most likely pay for themselves quickly in the amount of time and headache you save if you can afford the initial investment.
Free	Paid
Ghostwriter	AttackForge
Dradis	PlexTrac
Security Risk Advisors VECTR	Rootshell Prism
WriteHat	
Misc Tips/Tricks

Though we've covered some of these in other module sections, here is a list of tips and tricks that you should keep close by:

    Aim to tell a story with your report. Why does it matter that you could perform Kerberoasting and crack a hash? What was the impact of default creds on X application?
    Write as you go. Don't leave reporting until the end. Your report does not need to be perfect as you test but documenting as much as you can as clearly as you can during testing will help you be as comprehensive as possible and not miss things or cut corners while rushing on the last day of the testing window.
    Stay organized. Keep things in chronological order, so working with your notes is easier. Make your notes clear and easy to navigate, so they provide value and don't cause you extra work.
    Show as much evidence as possible while not being overly verbose. Show enough screenshots/command output to clearly demonstrate and reproduce issues but do not add loads of extra screenshots or unnecessary command output that will clutter up the report.
    Clearly show what is being presented in screenshots. Use a tool such as Greenshot to add arrows/colored boxes to screenshots and add explanations under the screenshot if needed. A screenshot is useless if your audience has to guess what you're trying to show with it.
    Redact sensitive data wherever possible. This includes cleartext passwords, password hashes, other secrets, and any data that could be deemed sensitive to our clients. Reports may be sent around a company and even to third parties, so we want to ensure we've done our due diligence not to include any data in the report that could be misused. A tool such as Greenshot can be used to obfuscate parts of a screenshot (using solid shapes and not blurring!).
    Redact tool output wherever possible to remove elements that non-hackers may construe as unprofessional (i.e., (Pwn3d!) from CrackMapExec output). In CME's case, you can change that value in your config file to print something else to the screen, so you don't have to change it in your report every time. Other tools may have similar customization.
    Check your Hashcat output to ensure that none of the candidate passwords is anything crude. Many wordlists will have words that can be considered crude/offensive, and if any of these are present in the Hashcat output, change them to something innocuous. You may be thinking, "they said never to alter command output." The two examples above are some of the few times it is OK. Generally, if we are modifying something that can be construed as offensive or unprofessional but not changing the overall representation of the finding evidence, then we are OK, but take this on a case-by-case basis and raise issues like this to a manager or team lead if in doubt.
    Check grammar, spelling, and formatting, ensure font and font sizes are consistent and spell out acronyms the first time you use them in a report.
    Make sure screenshots are clear and do not capture extra parts of the screen that bloat their size. If your report is difficult to interpret due to poor formatting or the grammar and spelling are a mess, it will detract from the technical results of the assessment. Consider a tool such as Grammarly or LanguageTool (but be aware these tools may ship some of your data to the cloud to "learn"), which is much more powerful than Microsoft Word's built-in spelling and grammar check.
    Use raw command output where possible, but when you need to screenshot a console, make sure it's not transparent and showing your background/other tools (this looks terrible). The console should be solid black with a reasonable theme (black background, white or green text, not some crazy multi-colored theme that will give the reader a headache). Your client may print the report, so you may want to consider a light background with dark text, so you don't demolish their printer cartridge.
    Keep your hostname and username professional. Don't show screenshots with a prompt like azzkicker@clientsmasher.
    Establish a QA process. Your report should go through at least one, but preferably two rounds of QA (two reviewers besides yourself). We should never review our own work (wherever possible) and want to put together the best possible deliverable, so pay attention to the QA process. At a minimum, if you're independent, you should sleep on it for a night and review it again. Stepping away from the report for a while can sometimes help you see things you overlook after staring at it for a long time.
    Establish a style guide and stick to it, so everyone on your team follows a similar format and reports look consistent across all assessments.
    Use autosave with your notetaking tool and MS Word. You don't want to lose hours of work because a program crashes. Also, backup your notes and other data as you go, and don't store everything on a single VM. VMs can fail, so you should move evidence to a secondary location as you go. This is a task that can and should be automated.
    Script and automate wherever possible. This will ensure your work is consistent across all assessments you perform, and you don't waste time on tasks repeated on every assessment.

Client Communication

Strong written and verbal communication skills are paramount for anyone in a penetration testing role. During our engagements (from scoping until final report delivery and review), we must remain in constant contact with our clients and serve appropriately in our role as trusted advisors. They are hiring our company and paying a lot of money for us to identify issues in their networks, give remediation advice, and also to educate their staff on the issues we find through our report deliverable. At the start of every engagement, we should send a start notification email including information such as:

    Tester name
    Description of the type/scope of the engagement
    Source IP address for testing (public IP for an external attack host or the internal IP of our attack host if we are performing an Internal Penetration Test)
    Dates anticipate for testing
    Primary and secondary contact information (email and phone)

At the end of each day, we should send a stop notification to signal the end of testing. This can be a good time to give a high-level summary of findings (especially if the report will have 20+ high-risk findings) so the report does not entirely blindside the client. We can also reiterate expectations for report delivery at this time. We should, of course, be working on the report as we go and not leave it 100% to the last minute, but it can take a few days to write up the entire attack chain, executive summary, findings, recommendations, and perform self-QA checks. After this, the report should go through at least one round of internal QA (and the people responsible for QA probably have lots of other things to do), which can take some time.

The start and stop notifications also give the client a window for when your scans and testing activities were taking place in case they need to run down any alerts.

Aside from these formal communications, it is good to keep an open dialogue with our clients and build and strengthen the trusted advisor relationship. Did you discover an additional external subnet or subdomain? Check with the client to see if they'd like to add it to the scope (within reason and provided it does not exceed the time allotted for testing). Did you discover a high-risk SQL injection or remote code execution flaw on an external website? Stop testing and formally notify the client and see how they would like to proceed. A host seems down from scanning? It happens, and it's best to be upfront about it than try to hide it. Got Domain Admin/Enterprise Admin? Give the client a heads up in case they see alerts and get nervous or so they can prepare their management for the pending report. Also, at this point, let them know that you will keep testing and looking for other paths but ask them if there is anything else they'd like you to focus on or servers/databases that should still be limited even with DA privileges that you can target.

We should also discuss the importance of detailed notes and scanner logging/tool output. If your client asks if you hit a specific host on X day, you should be able to, without a doubt, provide documented evidence of your exact activities. It stinks to get blamed for an outage, but it's even worse if you get blamed for one and have zero concrete evidence to prove that it was not a result of your testing.

Keeping these communication tips in mind will go a long way towards building goodwill with your client and winning repeat business and even referrals. People want to work with others who treat them well and work diligently and professionally, so this is your time to shine. With excellent technical skills and communication skills, you will be unstoppable!
Presenting Your Report - The Final Product

Once the report is ready, it needs to go through review before delivery. Once delivered, it is customary to provide the client with a report review meeting to either go over the entire report, the findings alone, or answer questions that they may have.
QA Process

A sloppy report will call into question everything about our assessment. If our report is a disorganized mess, is it even possible that we performed a thorough assessment? Were we careless and left a trail of destruction in our wake that the client will have to spend time they don't have to clean up? Let's ensure our report deliverable is a testament to our hard-earned knowledge and hard work on the assessment and adequately reflects both. The client isn't going to see most of what you did during the assessment.

The report is your highlight reel and is honestly what the client is paying for!

You could have executed the most complex awesome attack chain in the history of attack chains, but if you can't get it on paper in a way that someone else can understand, it may as well have never happened at all.

If possible, every report should undergo at least one round of QA by someone who isn't the author. Some teams may also opt to break up the QA process into multiple steps (e.g., QA for technical accuracy and then QA for proper styling and cosmetics). It will be up to you, your team, or your organization to choose the right approach that works for the size of your team. If you are just starting on your own and don't have the luxury of having someone else review your report, I would strongly recommend walking away from it for a while or sleeping on it and reviewing it again at a minimum. Once you read through a document 45 times, you start overlooking things. This mini-reset can help you catch things you didn't see after you had been staring at it for days.

It is good practice to include a QA checklist as part of your report template (remove it once the report is final). This should consist of all the checks the author should make regarding content and formatting and anything else that you may have in your style guide. This list will likely grow over time as you and your team's processes are refined, and you learn which mistakes people are most prone to making. Make sure that you check grammar, spelling, and formatting! A tool such as Grammarly or LanguageTool is excellent for this (but make sure you have approval). Don't send a sloppy report to QA because it may get kicked back to you to fix before the reviewer even looks at it, and it can be a costly waste of time for you and others.

A quick note about online grammar correction tools: As a means to "learn" more and improve the accuracy of the tool, these will often send pieces of whatever data it's reading back "home", which means if you're writing a report with confidential client vulnerability data in it, you might be breaching some sort of MSA or something unwittingly. Before using tools like this, it's important to look into their functionality and whether this sort of behavior can be disabled.

If you have access to someone that can perform QA and you begin trying to implement a process, you may soon find that as the team grows and the number of reports being output increases, things can get difficult to track. At a basic level, a Google Sheet or some equivalent could be used to help make sure things don't get lost, but if you have many more people (like consultants AND PMs) and you have access to a tool like Jira, that could be a much more scalable solution. You'll likely need a central place to store your reports so that other people can get to them to perform the QA process. There are many out there that would work, but choosing the best one is outside the scope of this course.

Ideally, the person performing QA should NOT be responsible for making significant modifications to the report. If there are minor typos, phrasing, or formatting issues to address that can be done more quickly than sending the report back to the author to change, that's likely fine. For missing or poorly illustrated evidence, missing findings, unusable executive summary content, etc., the author should bear the responsibility for getting that document into presentable condition.

You obviously want to be diligent about reviewing the changes made to your report (turn Track Changes on!) so that you can stop making the same mistakes in subsequent reports. It's absolutely a learning opportunity, so don't squander it. If it's something that happens across multiple people, you may want to consider adding that item to your QA checklist to remind people to address those issues before sending reports to QA. There aren't many better feelings in this career than when the day comes that a report you wrote gets through QA without any changes.

It may be considered strictly a formality, but it's reasonably common to initially issue a "Draft" copy of the report to the client once the QA process has been completed. Once the client has the draft report, they should be expected to review it and let you know whether they would like an opportunity to walk through the report with you to discuss modifications and ask questions. If any changes or updates need to be made to the report after this conversation, they can be made to the report and a "Final" version issued. The final report is often going to be identical to the draft report (if the client does not have any changes that need to be made), but it will just say "Final" instead of "Draft ."It may seem frivolous, but some auditors will only consider accepting a final report as an artifact, so it could be quite important to some clients.
Report Review Meeting

Once the report has been delivered, it’s fairly customary to give the client a week or so to review the report, gather their thoughts, and offer to have a call to review it with them to collect any feedback they have on your work. Usually, this call covers the technical finding details one by one and allows the client to ask questions about what you found and how you found it. These calls can be immensely helpful in improving your ability to present this type of data, so pay careful attention to the conversation. If you find yourself answering the same questions every time, that could indicate that you need to tweak your workflow or the information you provide to help answer those questions before the client asks them.

Once the report has been reviewed and accepted by both sides, it is customary to change the DRAFT designation to FINAL and deliver the final copy to the client. From here, we should archive all of our testing data per our company's retention policies until a retest of remediated findings is performed at the very least.
Wrap Up

These are just some tips and tricks we have collected over the years. Many of these are common sense. This post by the awesome team at Black Hills Information Security is worth a read. The goal here is to present the most professional deliverable possible while telling a clear story based on our hard work during a technical assessment. Put your best foot forward and create a deliverable you can be proud of. You spent many hours relentlessly pursuing Domain Admin. Apply that same zeal to your reporting, and you'll be a rockstar. In the last sections of this module, we'll discuss opportunities for practicing our documentation and reporting skills


How to Write Up a Finding

The Findings section of our report is the "meat." This is where we get to show off what we found, how we exploited them, and give the client guidance on how to remediate the issues. The more detail we can put into each finding, the better. This will help technical teams reproduce the finding on their own and then be able to test that their fix worked. Being detailed in this section will also help whoever is tasked with the post-remediation assessment if the client contracts your firm to perform it. While we'll often have "stock" findings in some sort of database, it's essential to tweak them to fit our client's environment to ensure we aren't mispresenting anything.
Breakdown of a Finding

Each finding should have the same general type of information that should be customized to your client's specific circumstances. If a finding is written to suit several different scenarios or protocols, the final version should be adjusted to only reference the particular circumstances you identified. "Default Credentials" could have different meanings for risk if it affects a DeskJet printer versus the building's HVAC control or another high-impact web application. At a minimum, the following information should be included for each finding:

    Description of the finding and what platform(s) the vulnerability affects
    Impact if the finding is left unresolved
    Affected systems, networks, environments, or applications
    Recommendation for how to address the problem
    Reference links with additional information about the finding and resolving it
    Steps to reproduce the issue and the evidence that you collected

Some additional, optional fields include:

        text
- CVE
- OWASP, MITRE IDs
- CVSS or similar score
- Ease of exploitation and probability of attack
- Any other information that might help learn about and mitigate the attack


Showing Finding Reproduction Steps Adequately

As mentioned in the previous section regarding the Executive Summary, it's important to remember that even though your point-of-contact might be reasonably technical, if they don't have a background specifically in penetration testing, there is a pretty decent chance they won't have any idea what they're looking at. They may have never even heard of the tool you used to exploit the vulnerability, much less understand what's important in the wall of text it spits out when the command runs. For this reason, it's crucial to guard yourself against taking things for granted and assuming people know how to fill in the blanks themselves. If you don't do this correctly, again, this will erode the effectiveness of your deliverable, but this time in the eyes of your technical audience. Some concepts to consider:

    Break each step into its own figure. If you perform multiple steps in the same figure, a reader unfamiliar with the tools being used may not understand what is taking place, much less have an idea of how to reproduce it themselves.
    If setup is required (e.g., Metasploit modules), capture the full configuration so the reader can see what the exploit config should look like before running the exploit. Create a second figure that shows what happens when you run the exploit.
    Write a narrative between figures describing what is happening and what is going through your head at this point in the assessment. Do not try to explain what is happening in the figure with the caption and have a bunch of consecutive figures.
    After walking through your demonstration using your preferred toolkit, offer alternative tools that can be used to validate the finding if they exist (just mention the tool and provide a reference link, don't do the exploit twice with more than one tool).

Your primary objective should be to present evidence in a way that is understandable and actionable to the client. Think about how the client will use the information you're presenting. If you're showing a vulnerability in a web application, a screenshot of Burp isn't the best way to present this information if you're crafting your own web requests. The client will probably want to copy/paste the payload from your testing to recreate it, and they can't do that if it's just a screenshot.

Another critical thing to consider is whether your evidence is completely and utterly defensible. For example, if you're trying to demonstrate that information is being transmitted in clear text because of the use of basic authentication in a web application, it's insufficient just to screenshot the login prompt popup. That shows that basic auth is in place but offers no proof that information is being transmitted in the clear. In this instance, showing the login prompt with some fake credentials entered into it, and the clear text credentials in a Wireshark packet capture of the human-readable authentication request leaves no room for debate. Similarly, if you're trying to demonstrate the presence of a vulnerability in a particular web application or something else with a GUI (like RDP), it's important to capture either the URL in the address bar or output from an ifconfig or ipconfig command to prove that it's on the client's host and not some random image you downloaded from Google. Also, if you're screenshotting your browser, turn your bookmarks bar off and disable any unprofessional browser extensions or dedicate a specific web browser to your testing.

Below is an example of how we could show the steps for capturing a hash using the Responder tool and cracking it offline using Hashcat. While it is not 100% necessary, it can be good to list alternate tools as we did with this finding. The client may be working from a Windows box and find a PowerShell script or executable to be more user-friendly or may be more familiar with another toolset. Note that we also redacted the hash and cleartext passwords as this report could be passed around to many different audiences, so it can be best to redact credentials wherever possible.

Terminal output showing Responder capturing NTLMv2 hash for user bsmith from IP 192.168.195.205, followed by Hashcat cracking the hash with a redacted password.
Effective Remediation Recommendations
Example 1

    Bad: Reconfigure your registry settings to harden against X.
    Good: To fully remediate this finding, the following registry hives should be updated with the specified values. Note that changes to critical components like the registry should be approached with caution and tested in a small group prior to making large-scale changes.
        [list the full path to the affected registry hives]
            Change value X to value Y

Rationale

While the "bad" example is at least somewhat helpful, it's fairly lazy, and you're squandering a learning opportunity. Once again, the reader of this report may not have the depth of experience in Windows as you, and giving them a recommendation that will require hours' worth of work for them to figure out how to do it is only going to frustrate them. Do your homework and be as specific as reasonably possible. Doing so has the following benefits:

    You learn more this way and will be much more comfortable answering questions during the report review. This will reinforce the client's confidence in you and will be knowledge that you can leverage on future assessments and to help level up your team.
    The client will appreciate you doing the research for them and outlining specifically what needs to be done so they can be as efficient as possible. This will increase the likelihood that they will ask you to do future assessments and recommend you and your team to their friends.

It's also worth drawing attention to the fact that the "good" example includes a warning that changing something as important as the registry carries its own set of risks and should be performed with caution. Again, this indicates to the client that you have their best interests in mind and genuinely want them to succeed. For better or worse, there will be clients that will blindly do whatever you tell them to and will not hesitate to try and hold you accountable if doing so ends up breaking something.
Example 2

    Bad: Implement [some commercial tool that costs a fortune] to address this finding.
    Good: There are different approaches to addressing this finding. [Name of the affected software vendor] has published a workaround as an interim solution. For the sake of brevity, a link to the walkthrough has been provided in the reference links below. Alternatively, there are commercial tools available that would make it possible to disable the vulnerable functionality in the affected software altogether, but these tools may be cost-prohibitive.

Rationale

The "bad" example gives the client no way to remediate this issue without spending a lot of money that they may not have. While the commercial tool may be the easiest solution far and away, many clients will not have the budget to do that and need an alternative solution. The alternative solution may be a bandaid or extraordinarily cumbersome, or both, but it will at least buy the client some time until the vendor has released an official fix.
Selecting Quality References

Each finding should include one or more external references for further reading on a particular vulnerability or misconfiguration. Some criteria that enhance the usefulness of a reference:

    A vendor-agnostic source is helpful. Obviously, if you find an ASA vulnerability, a Cisco reference link makes sense, but I wouldn't lean on them for a writeup on anything outside of networking. If you reference an article written by a product vendor, chances are the article's focus will be telling the reader how their product can help when all the reader wants is to know how to fix it themselves.

A thorough walkthrough or explanation of the finding and any recommended workarounds or mitigations is preferable. Don't choose articles behind a paywall or something where you only get part of what you need without paying.

    Use articles that get to the point quickly. This isn't a recipe website, and no one cares how often your grandmother used to make those cookies. We have problems to solve, and making someone dig through the entire NIST 800-53 document or an RFC is more annoying than helpful.
    Choose sources that have clean websites and don't make you feel like a bunch of crypto miners are running in the background or ads pop up everywhere.
    If possible, write some of your own source material and blog about it. The research will aid you in explaining the impact of the finding to your clients, and while the infosec community is pretty helpful, it'd be preferable not to send your clients to a competitor's website.

Example Findings

Below are a few example findings. The first two are examples of issues that may be discovered during an Internal Penetration Test. As you can see, each finding includes all of the key elements: a detailed description to explain what is going on, the impact to the environment if the finding is left unfixed, the hosts affected by the issue (or the entire domain), remediation advice that is generic, does not recommend specific vendor tools and gives several options for remediation. Finally, the reference links are from well-known, reputable sources that will likely not be taken down anytime soon as a personal blog may.

A note on the formatting: This could potentially be a hotly contested topic. The example findings here have been laid out in a tabular format, but if you've ever worked in Word or tried to automate some of your report generation, you know that tables can be a nightmare to deal with. For this reason, others opt to separate sections of their findings with different heading levels. Either of these approaches is acceptable because what is important is whether your message gets across to the reader and how easy it is to pick out the visual cues for when one finding ends and another begins; readability is paramount. If you can accomplish this, colors, layout, order, and even section names can be adjusted.
Weak Kerberos Authentication (“Kerberoasting”)

Table detailing a high-risk Kerberos authentication issue, CVSS score 9.5, affecting INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL, with remediation steps like enabling AES encryption.
Tomcat Manager Weak/Default Credentials

Table detailing a high-risk Tomcat Manager issue with weak credentials, CVSS score 9.5, affecting host 192.168.195.205, with remediation steps like restricting access and changing default passwords.
Poorly Written Finding

Below is an example of a poorly written finding which has several issues:

    Formatting is sloppy with the CWE link
    No CVSS score is filled in (not mandatory, but if your report template uses it, you should fill it in)
    The Description does not clearly explain the issue or root cause
    The security impact is vague and generic
    The Remediation section is not clear and actionable

If I am reading this report, I can see that this finding is bad (because it's red), but why do I care? What do I do about it? Each finding should present the issue in detail and educate the reader on the issue at hand (they may very likely have never heard of Kerberoasting or some other attack). Clearly articulate the security risk and why this needs to be remediated and some actionable remediation recommendations.

Table detailing high-risk Kerberoasting issue, CVSS score 9.5, affecting INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL, with remediation steps like deleting SPN accounts and using gMSA.
Hands-On Practice

The target VM that can be spawned in this section has a running copy of the WriteHat report writing tool developed by Black Lantern Security. This is a helpful tool for building a findings database and generating customized reports. While we do not endorse any one specific tool in this module, many reporting tools are similar, so playing around with WriteHat will give you a good idea of how these types of tools work. Practice adding findings to the database, building and generating a report, etc. We prepopulated the findings database with some common findings categories, and some of the findings included in the sample report attached to this module. Experiment with it as much as you like and practice the skills taught in this section. Keep in mind that anything you enter into the tool will not be saved once the target expires, so if you write up any practice findings, make sure to keep a copy locally. This tool will also be helpful for the hands-on guided lab at the end of this module.

Once the target spawns, browse to https://< target IP > and log in with the credentials htb-student:HTB_@cademy_stdnt!.
https://TARGETIP/login?next=/
Login page for WriteHat with fields for username and password, featuring a white hat logo and the tagline 'Hack your reporting chain.

Practice writing up findings and exploring the tool. You may even decide you like it enough to use it as part of your workflow. One idea would be to install a copy locally and practice writing findings for issues you discover in Academy module labs or boxes/labs on the HTB main platform.
Nearly There

Now that we've covered how to stay organized during a penetration test, types of reports, the standard components of a report, and how to write up a finding, we have some reporting tips/tricks to share with you from our collective experience in the field.


Writing a Strong Executive Summary

The Executive Summary is one of the most important parts of the report. As mentioned previously, our clients are ultimately paying for the report deliverable which has several purposes aside from showing weaknesses and reproduction steps that can be used by technical teams working on remediation. The report will likely be viewed in some part by other internal stakeholders such as Internal Audit, IT and IT Security management, C-level management, and even the Board of Directors. The report may be used to either validate funding from the prior year for infosec or to request additional funding for the following year. For this reason, we need to ensure that there is content in the report that can be easily understood by people without technical knowledge.
Key Concepts

The intended audience for the Executive Summary is typically the person that is going to be responsible for allocating the budget to fixing the issues we discovered. For better or worse, some of our clients have likely been trying to get funding to fix the issues presented in the report for years and fully intend to use the report as ammunition to finally get some stuff done. This is our best chance to help them out. If we lose our audience here and there are budgetary limitations, the rest of the report can quickly become worthless. Some key things to assume (that may or may not be true) to maximize the effectiveness of the Executive Summary are:

    It should be obvious, but this should be written for someone who isn't technical at all. The typical barometer for this is "if your parents can't understand what the point is, then you need to try again" (assuming your parents aren't CISOs or sysadmins or something of the sort).
    The reader doesn't do this every day. They don't know what Rubeus does, what password spraying means, or how it's possible that tickets can grant different tickets (or likely even what a ticket is, aside from a piece of paper to enter a concert or a ballgame).
    This may be the first time they've ever been through a penetration test.
    Much like the rest of the world in the instant gratification age, their attention span is small. When we lose it, we are extraordinarily unlikely to get it back.
    Along the same lines, no one likes to read something where they have to Google what things mean. Those are called distractions.

Let's talk through a list of "do's and don'ts" when writing an effective Executive Summary.
Do

    When talking about metrics, be as specific as possible. - Words like "several," "multiple," and "few" are ambiguous and could mean 6 or 500. Executives aren't going to dig through the report for this information, so if you're going to talk about this, let them know what you've got; otherwise, you're going to lose their attention. The most common reason people do not commit to a specific number is to leave it open in case the consultant missed one. You can make minor changes to the language to account for this, such as "while there may be additional instances of X, in the time allotted to the assessment, we observed 25 occurrences of X".
    It's a summary. Keep it that way. - If you wrote more than 1.5-2 pages, you've probably been too verbose. Examine the topics you talked about and determine whether they can be collapsed into higher-level categories that might fall into specific policies or procedures.
    Describe the types of things you managed to access - Your audience may not have any idea what "Domain Admin" means, but if you mention that you gained access to an account that enabled you to get your hands on HR documents, banking systems, and other critical assets, that's universally understandable.
    Describe the general things that need to improve to mitigate the risks you discovered. - This should not be "install 3 patches and call me in a year". You should be thinking in terms of "what process broke down that enabled a five-year-old vulnerability to go unpatched in a quarter of the environment?". If you password spray and get 500 hits on Welcome1!, changing the passwords of those 500 accounts is only part of the solution. The other part is probably providing the Help Desk with a way to set stronger initial passwords efficiently.
    If you're feeling brave and have a decent amount of experience on both sides, provide a general expectation for how much effort will be necessary to fix some of this. - If you have a long past as a sysadmin or engineer and you know how much internal politics people may have to wade through to start manipulating group policies, you may want to try and set an expectation for low, moderate, and significant levels of time and effort to correct the issues, so an overzealous CEO doesn't go tell his server team they need to apply CIS hardening templates to their GPOs over the weekend without testing them first.

Do Not

    Name or recommend specific vendors. - The deliverable is a technical document, not a sales document. It's acceptable to suggest technologies such as EDR or log aggregation but stay away from recommending specific vendors of those technologies, like CrowdStrike and Splunk. If you have experience with a particular vendor that is recent and you feel comfortable giving the client that feedback, do so out-of-band and make sure that you're clear that they should make their own decision (and probably bring the client's account executive into that discussion). If you're describing specific vulnerabilities, your reader is more likely to recognize something like "vendors like VMWare, Apache, and Adobe" instead of "vSphere, Tomcat, and Acrobat."
    Use Acronyms. - IP and VPN have reached a level of ubiquity that they're maybe okay, but using acronyms for protocols and types of attacks (e.g., SNMP, MitM) is tone-deaf and will render your executive summary completely ineffective for its intended audience.
    Spend more time talking about stuff that doesn't matter than you do about the significant findings in the report. - It is within your power to steer attention. Don't waste it on the issues you discovered that weren't that impactful.
    Use words that no one has ever heard of before. - Having a large vocabulary is great, but if no one can understand the point you're trying to make or they have to look up what words mean, all they are is a distraction. Show that off somewhere else.
    Reference a more technical section of the report. - The reason the executive is reading this might be because they don't understand the technical details, or they may decide they just don't have time for it. Also, no one likes having to scroll back and forth throughout the report to figure out what's going on.

Vocabulary Changes

To provide some examples of what it means to "write to a non-technical audience," we've provided some examples below of technical terms and acronyms you may be tempted to use, along with a less technical alternative that could be used instead. This list is not exhaustive nor the "right" way to describe these things. They are meant as examples of how you might describe a technical topic in a more universally understandable way.

    VPN, SSH - a protocol used for secure remote administration
    SSL/TLS - technology used to facilitate secure web browsing
    Hash - the output from an algorithm commonly used to validate file integrity
    Password Spraying - an attack in which a single, easily-guessable password is attempted for a large list of harvested user accounts
    Password Cracking - an offline password attack in which the cryptographic form of a user’s password is converted back to its human-readable form
    Buffer overflow/deserialization/etc. - an attack that resulted in remote command execution on the target host
    OSINT - Open Source Intelligence Gathering, or hunting/using data about a company and its employees that can be found using search engines and other public sources without interacting with a company's external network
    SQL injection/XSS - a vulnerability in which input is accepted from the user without sanitizing characters meant to manipulate the application's logic in an unintended manner

These are just a few examples. Your glossary will grow over time as you write more reports. You can also improve this in this area by reading the executive summaries that others have written describing some of the same findings that you typically discover. Doing so can be the catalyst for thinking of something in a different way. You may also receive feedback from the client from time to time about this, and it is important to receive this feedback gracefully and with an open mind. You may be tempted to get defensive (especially if the client is being really aggressive), but at the end of the day, they paid you to build them a useful product. If it isn't because they can't understand it, then look at it as an opportunity to practice and grow. Taking client feedback as a personal attack may be difficult not to do, but it's one of the most valuable things they can give you.
Example Executive Summary

Below is a sample executive summary that was taken from the sample report included with this module:

During the internal penetration test against Inlanefreight, Hack The Box Academy identified seven (7) findings that threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Inlanefreight’s information systems. The findings were categorized by severity level, with five (5) of the findings being assigned a high-risk rating, one (1) medium-risk, and one (1) low risk. There was also one (1) informational finding related to enhancing security monitoring capabilities within the internal network.

The tester found Inlanefreight’s patch and vulnerability management to be well-maintained. None of the findings in this report were related to missing operating system or third-party patches of known vulnerabilities in services and applications that could result in unauthorized access and system compromise. Each flaw discovered during testing was related to a misconfiguration or lack of hardening, with most falling under the categories of weak authentication and weak authorization.

One finding involved a network communication protocol that can be “spoofed” to retrieve passwords for internal users that can be used to gain unauthorized access if an attacker can gain unauthorized access to the network without credentials. In most corporate environments, this protocol is unnecessary and can be disabled. It is enabled by default primarily for small and medium-sized businesses that do not have the resources for a dedicated hostname resolution (the “phonebook” of your network) server. During the assessment, these resources were observed on the network, so Inlanefreight should begin formulating a test plan to disable the dangerous service.

The next issue was a weak configuration involving service accounts that allows any authenticated user to steal a component of the authentication process that can often be guessed offline (via password “cracking”) to reveal the human-readable form of the account’s password. These types of service accounts typically have more privileges than a standard user, so obtaining one of their passwords in clear text could result in lateral movement or privilege escalation and eventually in complete internal network compromise. The tester also noticed that the same password was used for administrator access to all servers within the internal network. This means that if one server is compromised, an attacker can re-use this password to access any server that shares it for administrative access. Fortunately, both of these issues can be corrected without the need for third-party tools. Microsoft’s Active Directory contains settings that can be used to minimize the risk of these resources being abused for the benefit of malicious users.

A webserver was also found to be running a web application that used weak and easily guessable credentials to access an administrative console that can be leveraged to gain unauthorized access to the underlying server. This could be exploited by an attacker on the internal network without needing a valid user account. This attack is very well-documented, so it is an exceedingly likely target that can be particularly damaging, even in the hands of an unskilled attacker. Ideally, direct external access to this service would be disabled, but in the event that it cannot be, it should be reconfigured with exceptionally strong credentials that are rotated frequently. Inlanefreight may also want to consider maximizing the log data collected from this device to ensure that attacks against it can be detected and triaged quickly.

The tester also found shared folders with excessive permissions, meaning that all users in the internal network can access a considerable amount of data. While sharing files internally between departments and users is important to day-to-day business operations, wide-open permissions on file shares may result in unintentional disclosure of confidential information. Even if a file share does not contain any sensitive information today, someone may unwittingly put such data there, thinking it is protected when it isn’t. This configuration should be changed to ensure that users can access only what is necessary to perform their day-to-day duties.

Finally, the tester noticed that testing activities seemed to go mostly unnoticed, which may represent an opportunity to improve visibility into the internal network and indicates that a real-world attacker might remain undetected if internal access is achieved. Inlanefreight should create a remediation plan based on the Remediation Summary section of this report, addressing all high findings as soon as possible according to the needs of the business. Inlanefreight should also consider performing periodic vulnerability assessments if they are not already being performed. Once the issues identified in this report have been addressed, a more collaborative, in-depth Active Directory security assessment may help identify additional opportunities to harden the Active Directory environment, making it more difficult for attackers to move around the network and increasing the likelihood that Inlanefreight will be able to detect and respond to suspicious activity.
Anatomy of the Executive Summary

That wall of text is great and all, but how did we get there? Let's take a look at the thought process, shall we? For this analysis, we'll use the sample report you can download from the Resources list.

The first thing you'll likely want to do is get a list of your findings together and try categorizing the nature of the risk of each one. These categories will be the foundation for what you're going to discuss in the executive summary. In our sample report, we have the following findings:

    LLMNR/NBT-NS Response Spoofing - configuration change/system hardening
    Weak Kerberos Authentication (“Kerberoasting”) - configuration change/system hardening
    Local Administrator Password Re-Use - behavioral/system hardening
    Weak Active Directory Passwords - behavioral
    Tomcat Manager Weak/Default Credentials High - configuration change/system hardening
    Insecure File Shares - configuration change/system hardening/permissions
    Directory Listing Enabled - configuration change/system hardening
    Enhance Security Monitoring Capabilities - configuration change/system hardening

First, it's notable that there aren't any issues in this list linked to missing patches, indicating that the client may have spent considerable time and effort maturing that process. For anyone that's been a sysadmin before, you'll know this is no small feat, so we want to make sure to recognize their efforts. This endears you to the sysadmin team by showing their executives that the work they've been doing has been effective, and it encourages the executives to continue to invest in people and technology that can help correct some of their issues.

Back to our findings, you can see nearly every finding has some sort of configuration change or system hardening resolution. To collapse it even further, you could start to conclude that this particular client has an immature configuration management process (i.e., they don't do a very good job of changing default configurations on anything before placing it into production). Since there is a lot to unpack in eight findings, you probably don't want to just write a paragraph that says "configure things better ."You have some real estate to get into some individual issues and describe some of the impact (the attention-grabbing stuff) of some of the more damaging findings. Developing a configuration management process will take a lot of work, so it's important to describe what did or could happen if this issue remains unchecked.

As you read each paragraph, you'll probably be able to map the high-level description to the associated finding to give you some idea of how to describe some of the more technical terms in a way that a non-technical audience can follow without having to look things up. You'll notice that we do not use acronyms, talk about protocols, mention tickets that grant other tickets, or anything like that. In a few cases, we also describe general anecdotes about what level of effort to expect from remediation, changes that should be made cautiously, workarounds to monitor for a given threat, and the skill level required to perform exploitation. You do NOT have to have a paragraph for every finding. If you have a report with 20 findings, that would get out of control quickly. Try to focus on the most impactful ones.

A couple of nuances to mention as well:

    Certain observations you make during the assessment can indicate a more significant issue the client may not be aware of. It's obviously valuable to provide this analysis, but you must be careful how it's worded to ensure you are not speaking in absolutes because of an assumption.
    At the end, you'll notice a paragraph about how it seems like and indicated that the client did not detect our testing activity. These qualifiers are important because you aren't absolutely sure they didn't. They may have just not told you they did.
    Another example of this (in general, not in this executive summary) would be if you wrote something to the effect of "begin documenting system hardening templates and processes ." This insinuates that they have done nothing, which could be insulting if they actually tried and failed. Instead, you might say, "review configuration management processes and address the gaps that led to the issues identified in this report."

Hopefully, this helps clear up some of the thought processes that went into writing this and gives you some ideas on how to think about things differently when trying to describe them. Words have meaning, so make sure you choose them carefully.
Summary of Recommendations

Before we get into the technical findings, it's a good idea to provide a Summary of Recommendations or Remediation Summary section. Here we can list our short, medium, and long-term recommendations based on our findings and the current state of the client's environment. We'll need to use our experience and knowledge of the client's business, security budget, staffing considerations, etc., to make accurate recommendations. Our clients will often have input on this section, so we want to get it right, or the recommendations are useless. If we structure this properly, our clients can use it as the basis for a remediation roadmap. If you opt not to do this, be prepared for clients to ask you to prioritize remediation for them. It may not happen all the time, but if you have a report with 15 high-risk findings and nothing else, they're likely going to want to know which of them is "the most high." As the saying goes, "when everything is important, nothing is important."

We should tie each recommendation back to a specific finding and not include any short or medium-term recommendations that are not actionable by remediating findings reported later in the report. Long-term recommendations may map back to informational/best practice recommendations such as "Create baseline security templates for Windows Server and Workstation hosts" but may also be catch-all recommendations such as "Perform periodic Social Engineering engagements with follow-on debriefings and security awareness training to build a security-focused culture within the organization from the top down."

Some findings could have an associated short and long-term recommendation. For example, if a particular patch is missing in many places, that is a sign that the organization struggles with patch management and perhaps does not have a strong patch management program, along with associated policies and procedures. The short-term solution would be to push out the relevant patches, while the long-term objective would be to review patch and vulnerability management processes to address any gaps that would prevent the same issue from cropping up again. In the application security world, it might instead be fixing the code in the short term and in the long term, reviewing the SDLC to ensure security is considered early enough in the development process to prevent these issues from making it into production.
Findings

After the Executive Summary, the Findings section is one of the most important. This section gives us a chance to show off our work, paint the client a picture of the risk to their environment, give technical teams the evidence to validate and reproduce issues and provide remediation advice. We will discuss this section of the report in detail in the next section of this module: How to Write up a Finding.
Appendices

There are appendices that should appear in every report, but others will be dynamic and may not be necessary for all reports. If any of these appendices bloat the size of the report unnecessarily, you may want to consider whether a supplemental spreadsheet would be a better way to present the data (not to mention the enhanced ability to sort and filter).
Static Appendices
Scope

Shows the scope of the assessment (URLs, network ranges, facilities, etc.). Most auditors that the client has to hand your report to will need to see this.
Methodology

Explain the repeatable process you follow to ensure that your assessments are thorough and consistent.
Severity Ratings

If your severity ratings don't directly map to a CVSS score or something similar, you will need to articulate the criteria necessary to meet your severity definitions. You will have to defend this occasionally, so make sure it is sound and can be backed up with logic and that the findings you include in your report are rated accordingly.
Biographies

If you perform assessments with the intent of fulfilling PCI compliance specifically, the report should include a bio about the personnel performing the assessment with the specific goal of articulating that the consultant is adequately qualified to perform the assessment. Even without compliance obligations, it can help give the client peace of mind that the person doing their assessment knew what they were doing.
Dynamic Appendices
Exploitation Attempts and Payloads

If you've ever done anything in incident response, you should know how many artifacts are left behind after a penetration test for the forensics guys to try and shift through. Be respectful and keep track of the stuff you did so that if they experience an incident, they can differentiate what was you versus an actual attacker. If you generate custom payloads, particularly if you drop them on disk, you should also include the details of those payloads here, so the client knows exactly where to go and what to look for to get rid of them. This is especially important for payloads that you cannot clean up yourself.
Compromised Credentials

If a large number of accounts were compromised, it is helpful to list them here (if you compromise the entire domain, it might be a wasted effort to list out every user account instead of just saying "all domain accounts") so that the client can take action against them if necessary.
Configuration Changes

If you made any configuration changes in the client environment (hopefully you asked first), you should itemize all of them so that the client can revert them and eliminate any risks you introduced into the environment (like disabling EDR or something). Obviously, it's ideal if you put things back the way you found them yourself and get approval in writing from the client to change things to prevent getting yelled at later on if your change has unintended consequences for a revenue-generating process.
Additional Affected Scope

If you have a finding with a list of affected hosts that would be too much to include with the finding itself, you can usually reference an appendix in the finding to see a complete list of the affected hosts where you can create a table to display them in multiple columns. This helps keep the report clean instead of having a bulleted list several pages long.
Information Gathering

If the assessment is an External Penetration test, we may include additional data to help the client understand their external footprint. This could include whois data, domain ownership information, subdomains, discovered emails, accounts found in public breach data (DeHashed is great for this), an analysis of the client's SSL/TLS configurations, and even a listing of externally accessible ports/services (in a large scope external you'd likely want to make a supplementary spreadsheet). This data can be beneficial in a low-to-no-finding report but should convey some sort of value to the client and not just be "fluff."
Domain Password Analysis

If you're able to gain Domain Admin access and dump the NTDS database, it's a good idea to run this through Hashcat with multiple wordlists and rules and even brute-force NTLM up through eight characters if your password cracking rig is powerful enough. Once you've exhausted your cracking attempts, a tool such as DPAT can be used to produce a nice report with various statistics. You may want just to include some key stats from this report (i.e., number of hashes obtained, number and percentage cracked, number of privileged accounts cracks (think Domain Admins and Enterprise Admins), top X passwords, and the number of passwords cracked for each character length). This can help drive home themes in the Executive Summary and Findings sections regarding weak passwords. You may also wish to provide the client with the entire DPAT report as supplementary data.
Report Type Differences

In this module, we are mainly covering all of the elements that should be included in an Internal Penetration Test report or an External Penetration Test that ended with internal compromise. Some of the elements of the report (such as the Attack Chain) will likely not apply in an External Penetration Test report where there was no internal compromise. This type of report would focus more on information gathering, OSINT data, and externally exposed services. It would likely not include appendices such as compromised credentials, configuration changes, or a domain password analysis. A Web Application Security Assessment (WASA) report would probably focus mainly on the Executive Summary and Findings sections and would likely emphasize the OWASP Top 10. A physical security assessment, red team assessment, or social engineering engagement would be written in more of a narrative format. It's a good practice to create templates for various types of assessments, so you have them ready to go when that particular type of assessment comes up.

Now that we've covered the elements of a report let's dig into how to write up a finding effectively.



